 and afterwards the no less noted Jonathan Plumer,
jun., "travelling preacher, physician and poet," as he was accustomed
to style himself, and of whom we shall hereafter speak. In addition to
his regular business of selling leather breeches, gloves "soutabel for
wimen's ware," &c. he engaged in commercial speculations, and in various
kinds of business, and was unusually successful. He traded with merchants
and speculators in the then Province of Maine, was engaged to some extent
in the West India trade. He also purchased a large amount of what were
called State securities, which were eventually redeemed at prices far
exceeding their original cost. Some of his speculations in whalebone
and warming pans are mentioned by himself on page 23 of this work. Thus
in various ways he added to his property, and in a few years he became
a wealthy man. With wealth came the desire of distinction, and as his
vanity was inordinate he spared no expence in obtaining the notoriety he
sought. In the first place he purchased an elegant house in High Street,
Newburyport, and embellished it in his peculiar way. Minarets surmounted
with golden balls were placed on the roof, a large gilt eagle was placed
on the top, and a great variety of other ornaments. In front of his house
and land he caused to be erected between forty and fifty wooden statues,
full length and larger than life. The principal arch stood directly in
front of his door, and on this stood the figures of Washington, Adams
and Jefferson. There were also the statues of William Pitt, Franklin,
Bonaparte, George IV, Lord Nelson, Gen. Morgan, Cornplanter, an Indian
Chief, Jack Tar, Traveling Preacher, Maternal Affection, Two Grenadiers,
Four Lions and one Lamb, and conspicuous among them were two images of
Dexter himself, one of which held a label with the inscription "_I am the
first in the East, the first in the West, and the greatest philosopher
in the Western world_." In order that the interior of his house should
correspond with the exterior, the most costly furniture was imported from
France, and the walls hung with paintings, brought from Holland and other
parts of Europe. A library was also provided, but how large or valuable
we are not able to say. An elegant coach with a span of beautiful cream
colored horses was procured, on which was painted his coat of arms,
with the baronial supporters, after the manner of the English nobility.
With this equipage he took the title of Lord Dexter, because, as he said,
it was "the voice of the people at Large." He was sometimes called
the Marquis of Newburyport. Having completed the embelishments of his
house and gardens, Lord Dexter busied himself in receiving the visits of
the crowds, who were drawn by curiosity to his house. His gardens were
thrown open to their inspection, and he was liberal to all. The fame of
his hospitality attracted as many visitors as the fame of his images. To
gratify his vanity he selected in imitation of European princes, a poet
laureate